[FEMALE WHISPERS IN ELVISH]
FEMALE VOICE:
The world is changed.
/ feel it in the water.
/ feel it in the earth.
/ smell it in the air.
Much that once was...
...is lost.
For none now live who remember it.
It began with the forging
of the Great Rings.
Three were given to the Elves:
Immortal, wisest and fairest
of all beings.
Seven to the Dwarf-lords:
Great miners and craftsmen
of the mountain halls.
And nine...
...nine rings were gifted
to the race of Men...
...who, above all else, desire power.
For within these rings was bound the
strength and will to govern each race.
But they were all of them deceived.
For another ring was made.
In the land of Mordor,
in the fires of Mount Doom...
...the Dark Lord Sauron forged
in secret a Master Ring...
...to control all others.
And into this Ring he poured
his cruelty, his malice...
...and his will to dominate all life.
One Ring to rule them all.
One by one...
...the Free Lands of Middle-earth
fell to the power of the Ring.
But there were some who resisted.
A Last Alliance of Men and Elves
marched against the armies of Mordor.
And on the slopes of Mount Doom, they
fought for Middle-earth's freedom.
[SPEAKS IN ELVISH]
Victory was near.
But the power of the Ring...
...could not be undone.
It was in this moment...
...when all hope had faded...
...that Isildur, son of the king,
took up his father's sword.